README.md, before:

# Vscode-LaTeX-inkscape
A way to integrate LaTeX, Vscode, and Inkscape in macOS

## Abstract

I use LaTeX heavily in past two years for both academic work and professional work, and I think I'm quite proficient in terms of type thing out in LaTeX. But when I see this blog post from **Gilles Castel**-[How I'm able to take notes in mathematics lectures using LaTeX and Vim](https://castel.dev/post/lecture-notes-1/) and also [How I draw figures for my mathematical lecture notes using Inkscape](https://castel.dev/post/lecture-notes-2/), I finally realize that I'm still too naive. 

I took quite a few math courses, hence after find out this incredible workflow, I decide to adapt the whole setup from Linux-Vim to macOS-Vscode. So, if you're interested in this and in the same situation as me, namely if you don't want to jump into Linux and Vim, follow me!

## Disclaimer

Please look through the two blog posts above from Gilles Castel! They are incredible, and worth spending your time to really understand how all things works, and what's the motivation behind all these. I'm only a copy-cat who want to mimic his workflow, but with a little patient to set up whole thing in my environment. Definitely show the respect to the original author!

## Setup For Typing Blasting Fast

First thing first, please set up your Vscode with LaTeX properly with [LaTeX Workshop](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=James-Yu.latex-workshop), there are lots of tutorial online, just check them out and set them up properly.

Now, we go through thing one by one follow Gilles Castel's blog post.

### Tex Conceal

This is probably the only thing I don't like that much in Gilles Castel's set up. I'm quite comfortable looking at LaTeX source code for formula, and I don't think they look that nice. But if you want to set them up in Vscode, there are an extension [here](https://github.com/Pancaek/vsc-conceal), I personally have no experience with this particular setup, feel free to try them out though.

### Snippets

#### What’s a snippet?

A snip­pet is a short reusable piece of text that can be triggered by some other text. For example, when I type `dm` and press Tab, the word `dm` will be expanded to a math environment:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/dm.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

If you are a math guy, you may need to type some inline math like `$$`, which is kind of painful. But with snippet, you can have 

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/inline.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

See? You just type `fm`, and then your snippet not only automatically type `$$`for you, it also sends your cursor between `$$`!

As you can imagine, this can be quite complex. For example, you can even have something like this:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/table2_5.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

or this:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/pmatrix.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

To fast to keep track of? For the first snippet, I type `table2 5`, and then it generates a table with 2 rows and 5 columns. For the second one, I type `pmat` for matrix, and then type `2 4` to indicate that I want a 2 by 4 matrix, then boom! My snippets do that for me in an instant!

Feeling it? Let try to set up this step by step. And maybe you can create your own snippets also!

### HyperSnips for Math

If you look around in Vscode extension marketplace to find UltiSnips' equivalence, you probably will find [Vsnips](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=corvofeng.Vsnips). But I'm not sure why this is the case, I can't figure out how to set up _ properly. Hence, I find another alternative, which is [HyperSnips](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=draivin.hsnips). But hold on, don't download this too quickly! We will use [HyperSnips for Math](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=OrangeX4.hsnips) instead, and I'll explain why in a moment. Before then, please first download [HyperSnips for Math](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=OrangeX4.hsnips). Now, just follow the instruction, copy [latex.hsnips](https://github.com/sleepymalc/Vscode-LaTeX-Inkscape/blob/main/HyperSnips/latex.hsnips) into `$HOME/Library/Application Support/Code/User/hsnips/`, and you're good to go!

To modify this file, you can either go to this file in your finder or use Vscode built-in command function. For command function, 

1. Press `shift+cmd+space` to type in some command to Vscode.
2. Type `>HyperSnips: Open Snippet File`
3. Choose `latex.hsnips`

Now, let move on. Oh wait, I need to explain to you why I want to use [HyperSnips for Math](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=OrangeX4.hsnips). This is because this version support *math mode*. Namely, you can specify a particular snippet will **only** be triggered in math environment. This is particularly useful when you need to switch beck and forth between text environment and math environment. When you use snippets after a while, you'll see why this is important!

For further and detailed explanation for snippets, please go to check out the original blog post! 

### Sympy and Mathematica

Unlike Gilles Castel's approach, there is an available extension out there for you to simplify your math calculation already! Please go to checkout [Latex SYMPA Calculator](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=OrangeX4.latex-sympy-calculator). It's works like follows:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/integral.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

Magic right? Let's set it up! First, please look at the installation document provided by [Latex Sympy Calculator](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=OrangeX4.latex-sympy-calculator). After your installation is done, you can then set up the keybinding for calculating the math expression. Personally, I use `shift+e`, where `e` stands for evaluate, to calculate in the way that it will append an equal sign and the answer right after your formula, just like above. And if you don't want to show the intermediate steps of your calculation, you can use `shift+r`, where `r` stands for replace, to directly replace the whole formula and give me the answer only. See the demo below:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/integral2.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

You can find my key-binding set up in this repo. But stay tune, there is more to come! Let's go to the last thing covered in Gilles Castel's post, correcting spelling mistakes.

### Correcting spelling mistakes on the fly

Although my typing speed is quite high, but I have typo all the times. So this is a must for me, actually. And surprisingly, this is the hardest thing until now for me to set it up right. Let's see how we can configure this functionality in Vscode!

#### multi-command

Firstly, you need to download [multi-command](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ryuta46.multi-command) to perform this. And this is a very powerful extension, which allow you to do a sequence of action in one shortcut. We will use this later on also, and that's the place it shines.

#### Code Spell Checker

And then, after searching for some times, I find out that there is a popular spelling checker out there which meets our needs, [Code Spell Checker](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker). Just download it, it's useful.

#### LTeX(Not required)

If you are bad in grammar like me, you definitely want to install [LTeX](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=valentjn.vscode-ltex) to check some simple grammar mistakes for you. Although it's not powerful like [Grammarly](https://www.grammarly.com/), not even comparable, but it's still a good reference for you to keep your eyes on some simple mistakes you may overlook.

Now, it's time to configure all these. Open your Keyboard Shortcuts page in Vscode, which is in the bottom left

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/jpg/keyboard.png" alt="drawing" width="400"/>  
</p>

And then go into it's `JSON` file, which is at the upper right:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/jpg/keyboard2.png" alt="drawing" width="200"/>
</p>

Now, paste the following code in `keybindings.json`:

```json
{
	"key": "cmd+l",
        "command": "extension.multiCommand.execute",
        "args": {
		"sequence": [
        	"cSpell.goToPreviousSpellingIssue",
	        {
                "command": "editor.action.codeAction",
        	    "args": {
	                "kind": "quickfix",
                    "apply": "first"
                }
            },
            "cursorUndo",
        ]
    }
},
```

Make sure that the curly braces above have a tailing comma, otherwise Vscode will complain about it.

Now, as long as you see there is a spelling error, you just type `cmd+l`, the keybinding will do the following things:

1. Use one of the default function from cSpell's: `goToPreviousSpellingIssue`, which jump your cursor on that spelling error word
2. Triggered a default editor action, with the argument being `quickfix` to open a quick fix drop down list, and choose the `first` suggestion
3. Move your cursor back by `cursorUndo`

Here is a quick demo for how it works when typing:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/spell.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

Additionally, if you also want to correct your grammar error, I use the shortcut `cmd+k` to trigger a quick-fix for a general error. The setting looks like this:
```json
{
    "key": "cmd+k",
    "command": "extension.multiCommand.execute",
    "args": {
        "sequence": [
            "editor.action.marker.prev",
            {
                "command": "editor.action.codeAction",
                "args": {
                    "kind": "quickfix",
                    "apply": "first"
                }
            },
            "cursorUndo",
        ]
    }
 },
```

Now, the first part is over. Let's go to the next truly beautiful, elegant and exciting world, drawing with [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/zh-hant/).

## Drawing Like a Pro

Before we go to any setup detail, let's first look at some figures I draw right after I have set this up:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/jpg/inkscape_example.png" width="500"/>
</p>

Commit message:

📍[main/README] unify the Vscode->VSCode

README.md, after:

# VSCode-LaTeX-Inkscape
A way to integrate LaTeX, VSCode, and Inkscape in macOS

## Abstract

I use LaTeX heavily in past two years for both academic work and professional work, and I think I'm quite proficient in terms of type thing out in LaTeX. But when I see this blog post from **Gilles Castel**-[How I'm able to take notes in mathematics lectures using LaTeX and Vim](https://castel.dev/post/lecture-notes-1/) and also [How I draw figures for my mathematical lecture notes using Inkscape](https://castel.dev/post/lecture-notes-2/), I finally realize that I'm still too naive. 

I took quite a few math courses, hence after find out this incredible workflow, I decide to adapt the whole setup from Linux-Vim to macOS-VSCode. So, if you're interested in this and in the same situation as me, namely if you don't want to jump into Linux and Vim, follow me!

## Disclaimer

Please look through the two blog posts above from Gilles Castel! They are incredible, and worth spending your time to really understand how all things works, and what's the motivation behind all these. I'm only a copy-cat who want to mimic his workflow, but with a little patient to set up whole thing in my environment. Definitely show the respect to the original author!

## Setup For Typing Blasting Fast

First thing first, please set up your VSCode with LaTeX properly with [LaTeX Workshop](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=James-Yu.latex-workshop), there are lots of tutorial online, just check them out and set them up properly.

Now, we go through thing one by one follow Gilles Castel's blog post.

### Tex Conceal

This is probably the only thing I don't like that much in Gilles Castel's set up. I'm quite comfortable looking at LaTeX source code for formula, and I don't think they look that nice. But if you want to set them up in VSCode, there are an extension [here](https://github.com/Pancaek/vsc-conceal), I personally have no experience with this particular setup, feel free to try them out though.

### Snippets

#### What’s a snippet?

A snip­pet is a short reusable piece of text that can be triggered by some other text. For example, when I type `dm` and press Tab, the word `dm` will be expanded to a math environment:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/dm.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

If you are a math guy, you may need to type some inline math like `$$`, which is kind of painful. But with snippet, you can have 

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/inline.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

See? You just type `fm`, and then your snippet not only automatically type `$$`for you, it also sends your cursor between `$$`!

As you can imagine, this can be quite complex. For example, you can even have something like this:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/table2_5.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

or this:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/pmatrix.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

To fast to keep track of? For the first snippet, I type `table2 5`, and then it generates a table with 2 rows and 5 columns. For the second one, I type `pmat` for matrix, and then type `2 4` to indicate that I want a 2 by 4 matrix, then boom! My snippets do that for me in an instant!

Feeling it? Let try to set up this step by step. And maybe you can create your own snippets also!

### HyperSnips for Math

If you look around in VSCode extension marketplace to find UltiSnips' equivalence, you probably will find [Vsnips](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=corvofeng.Vsnips). But I'm not sure why this is the case, I can't figure out how to set up _ properly. Hence, I find another alternative, which is [HyperSnips](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=draivin.hsnips). But hold on, don't download this too quickly! We will use [HyperSnips for Math](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=OrangeX4.hsnips) instead, and I'll explain why in a moment. Before then, please first download [HyperSnips for Math](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=OrangeX4.hsnips). Now, just follow the instruction, copy [latex.hsnips](https://github.com/sleepymalc/VSCode-LaTeX-Inkscape/blob/main/HyperSnips/latex.hsnips) into `$HOME/Library/Application Support/Code/User/hsnips/`, and you're good to go!

To modify this file, you can either go to this file in your finder or use VSCode built-in command function. For command function, 

1. Press `shift+cmd+space` to type in some command to VSCode.
2. Type `>HyperSnips: Open Snippet File`
3. Choose `latex.hsnips`

Now, let move on. Oh wait, I need to explain to you why I want to use [HyperSnips for Math](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=OrangeX4.hsnips). This is because this version support *math mode*. Namely, you can specify a particular snippet will **only** be triggered in math environment. This is particularly useful when you need to switch beck and forth between text environment and math environment. When you use snippets after a while, you'll see why this is important!

For further and detailed explanation for snippets, please go to check out the original blog post! 

### Sympy and Mathematica

Unlike Gilles Castel's approach, there is an available extension out there for you to simplify your math calculation already! Please go to checkout [Latex SYMPA Calculator](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=OrangeX4.latex-sympy-calculator). It's works like follows:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/integral.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

Magic right? Let's set it up! First, please look at the installation document provided by [Latex Sympy Calculator](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=OrangeX4.latex-sympy-calculator). After your installation is done, you can then set up the keybinding for calculating the math expression. Personally, I use `shift+e`, where `e` stands for evaluate, to calculate in the way that it will append an equal sign and the answer right after your formula, just like above. And if you don't want to show the intermediate steps of your calculation, you can use `shift+r`, where `r` stands for replace, to directly replace the whole formula and give me the answer only. See the demo below:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/integral2.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

You can find my key-binding set up in this repo. But stay tune, there is more to come! Let's go to the last thing covered in Gilles Castel's post, correcting spelling mistakes.

### Correcting spelling mistakes on the fly

Although my typing speed is quite high, but I have typo all the times. So this is a must for me, actually. And surprisingly, this is the hardest thing until now for me to set it up right. Let's see how we can configure this functionality in VSCode!

#### multi-command

Firstly, you need to download [multi-command](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ryuta46.multi-command) to perform this. And this is a very powerful extension, which allow you to do a sequence of action in one shortcut. We will use this later on also, and that's the place it shines.

#### Code Spell Checker

And then, after searching for some times, I find out that there is a popular spelling checker out there which meets our needs, [Code Spell Checker](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker). Just download it, it's useful.

#### LTeX(Not required)

If you are bad in grammar like me, you definitely want to install [LTeX](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=valentjn.VSCode-ltex) to check some simple grammar mistakes for you. Although it's not powerful like [Grammarly](https://www.grammarly.com/), not even comparable, but it's still a good reference for you to keep your eyes on some simple mistakes you may overlook.

Now, it's time to configure all these. Open your Keyboard Shortcuts page in VSCode, which is in the bottom left

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/jpg/keyboard.png" alt="drawing" width="400"/>  
</p>

And then go into it's `JSON` file, which is at the upper right:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/jpg/keyboard2.png" alt="drawing" width="200"/>
</p>

Now, paste the following code in `keybindings.json`:

```json
{
	"key": "cmd+l",
        "command": "extension.multiCommand.execute",
        "args": {
		"sequence": [
        	"cSpell.goToPreviousSpellingIssue",
	        {
                "command": "editor.action.codeAction",
        	    "args": {
	                "kind": "quickfix",
                    "apply": "first"
                }
            },
            "cursorUndo",
        ]
    }
},
```

Make sure that the curly braces above have a tailing comma, otherwise VSCode will complain about it.

Now, as long as you see there is a spelling error, you just type `cmd+l`, the keybinding will do the following things:

1. Use one of the default function from cSpell's: `goToPreviousSpellingIssue`, which jump your cursor on that spelling error word
2. Triggered a default editor action, with the argument being `quickfix` to open a quick fix drop down list, and choose the `first` suggestion
3. Move your cursor back by `cursorUndo`

Here is a quick demo for how it works when typing:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/gif/spell.gif" width="500"/>
</p>

Additionally, if you also want to correct your grammar error, I use the shortcut `cmd+k` to trigger a quick-fix for a general error. The setting looks like this:
```json
{
    "key": "cmd+k",
    "command": "extension.multiCommand.execute",
    "args": {
        "sequence": [
            "editor.action.marker.prev",
            {
                "command": "editor.action.codeAction",
                "args": {
                    "kind": "quickfix",
                    "apply": "first"
                }
            },
            "cursorUndo",
        ]
    }
 },
```

Now, the first part is over. Let's go to the next truly beautiful, elegant and exciting world, drawing with [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/zh-hant/).

## Drawing Like a Pro

Before we go to any setup detail, let's first look at some figures I draw right after I have set this up:

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/sleepymalc/sleepymalc/blob/main/Vscode-LaTEx-Inkscape/jpg/inkscape_example.png" width="500"/>
</p>

This is quite eye-pleasing, right? But this is just my naive drawing, compare to Gilles Castel's examples, this is nothing. Definitely check it out for this, that's what we called mind-blowing.
